Legal Frameworks
1.
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act)**:
A federal law that protects the privacy and security of patients' health information.
It establishes standards for the handling of medical records, giving patients
the right to access their information and understand how it is
used.
2.
OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)**:
A U.S. regulatory agency focused on ensuring safe working conditions.
OSHA sets standards for workplace safety and requires employers to implement
practices that protect employees from injury and illness, including in healthcare
settings.
3.
Informed Consent**:
A crucial healthcare principle requiring providers to inform patients about the risks, benefits, and alternatives of treatments.
This process ensures patients can make informed decisions about their care and provide consent voluntarily.